= Artificial Intelligence =

UAlbertaBot contains a mix of dynamic artificial intelligence systems and scripted rule-based decision making. Here I will give an overview of each main function of the bot and how it is performed.

== Build-order Planning (Search-Based AI) ==
  * All build-orders in UAlbertaBot are planned by our heuristic search based [StarcraftBuildOrderSearch build order planning system]. Build-order goals are given by `StrategyManager` to `ProductionManager` which then uses this system to dynamically generate near-optimal build order plans. The only two exceptions to this rule are:
    * A supply producer is build immediately if a supply defficiency is detected
    * A detector is made if enemy cloaked units are detected

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8IycRLEBok" width=640 height=480/>

== Combat Scenario Decisions (Real-time Simulation) ==
  * All battles UAlbertaBot encounters are first run through our [AdversarialSearch combat simulation system]. If the outcome of this simulation is positive we continue toward the enmy base. If the outcome is negative, we retreat toward our own base.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9441p6uTIVU" width=640 height=360/>

== Multi-Unit Path Finding (Search-Based AI) ==
  * A flood-fill based multi-agent path finding system is used to determine all ground paths to a given destination on a given map. The results of these are cached efficiently for later re-use if necessary.
== Strategy Selection (Learning AI) ==
  * UAlbertaBot uses the UCB algorithm for selecting a strategy to use against a given opponent, based on the results of previous matches. If no match history is available, we use a random selection from given strategies.
== Unit Micromanagement (Rule-Based) ==
  * Currently, all unit micromanagement follows a rule-based scripted policy found in its respective `MicroManager` subclass. We hope to soon extend this to use our full [AdversarialSearch alpha-beta based micro controller].
== Worker-Resource Allocation (Rule-Based) ==
  * Workers are allocated to resources by rule-based scripts using expert knowledge obtained from professional StarCraft players.
== Race Selection ==
  * Currently UAlbertaBot only plays the Protoss race, however its architecture allows for any race to be played. The only limiting factor is a fix needed to the build order system which currently has a bug for the zerg race. In the future we hope to play random race.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LwWQy7MxT-Q" width=640 height=480/>